well if you take the animal and you you
burn it then the smoke Rises and God is
that which is above and so God can
detect the smoke and then he can detect
the quality of the offering so that's
the idea behind the offering and it's it
is archaic it's not the way that modern
people think about sacrifice but I think
about it psychologically as a
developmental move towards full
recognition of the idea first of all
that work is a form of sacrifice and
vice versa and that
because you sacrifice the present to the
Future at least but you also sacrifice
everything to your highest priority if
you're not confused and then that brings
up the question of what the highest
priority should be and what the quality
of the sacrifice should be and the
answer to that psychologically is it
should be the highest possible quality
sacrifice to the highest possible thing
because you otherwise you have to ask
yourself why would you bother doing it
so it's easy to dismiss these ideas of
burnt offering as primitive Superstition
but there there's an idea behind them
that's unbel it's unbelievably deep and
profound and and also the idea that life
requires sacrifice to continue in its
utmost form and that
sacrifice should be voluntary and that
even it should extend in some sense and
has to to the sacrifice of the innocent
I mean that's a that's an extremely
profound and also very problematic idea
but it can't be just hand waved away and
there's a there's a manner in which if
you take that factually and you apply it
to little things or to purposes in
general there's a manner in which the
purpose will always know the quality of
your sacrifice because
what you do the quality of what you do
will attain or not the purpose but like
the World will hit you back you can you
can you can pretend with people you can
lie you can you can deceive but if
you're trying to to to be a good
basketball player and you don't make you
don't make the sacrifices you're not
going to be a good basketball player
yeah yeah that's what's going to happen
yeah well and that's another indication
of the intrinsic logos of the world and
we also know this deeply I would say
inside ourselves because
people know perfectly well that their
conscience can torment them and it is
the case sometimes that people's
conscience is overdeveloped and has this
tyrannical Super Eagle element and will
knock them down but if your conscience
is functioning well basically what it
does is indicate to you constantly that
your sacrifices are either not of the
right sort or they're not
of the highest quality and you call
yourself out on that right and so and
you and what's one of the things that's
so odd about that is you can't
if you try to escape from that it just
makes it worse for you and you know that
and you really can't escape from it not
except by abiding by it you can fight it
and all of that and you can Harden your
heart and become even more determined in
your willingness to make improper
sacrifices but you know perfectly well
I've never seen anyone that in some
fundamental sense was deluded on that
account because people know they know I
could have could have tried harder the
way is that your theory then in light of
all these days and that subject of
sacrifice
do you feel that we are net losers
religiously morally theologically net
gainers or neither having no more
sacrificial system well I think we do
still have a sacrificial system I mean I
asked my club my students all the time
in my maps of mini class they were a lot
of them were children of first
generation immigrants often Asian I said
what did your parents sacrifice to come
here well it's like they knew exactly
what that meant and they knew exactly
generally what they had sacrificed as
well and so we've spiritualized it in
some sense and partly what you see in
the entire biblical Corpus is the
spiritualization the psychologization of
the sacrificial problem very
specifically and I don't have an answer
the fact that we don't act it out the
actual carnal representation of
sacrifice is that a loss that we don't
it's a very good question I mean I'm not
a part of the part of the question that
Jonathan and I have been debating back
and forth constantly is and part of the
question that this book raises is to
what degree does what's become abstract
still need still need to be represented
in image and and action right right how
much does it have to have to be
ritualized and there is still I mean in
this tradition there is still even
though it's not a killing of an animal
it still is ritualized aspect of
sacrifice is there some kind of giving
like giving money or giving something
which becomes like uh Judaism
the Torah and Judaism later
are are very concrete religions
it was even dismissed by some Christians
in the Middle Ages as a carnal religion
because it's so deeply embedded in in
life uh so yes
the abstract is is less important than
the concrete in many ways in the Torah
and in Judaism but I'm asking this I
don't know if you know this I'm sure Oz
knows this but uh Many Many religious
Jews still pray daily for the
restoration of the sacrificial system
that the temple be rebuilt and
specifically so that we can sacrifice
again
and there's no denying the drama of
blood and death right so you're you
would not dismiss that prayer as as well
I I tend not to dismiss anything that's
extraordinarily peculiar off out of hand
right because there's usually something
lurking underneath it but I mean in
Christianity obviously you still have
this I believe you still have the
sacrifice we participate in the
sacrifice of Christ it's not a yeah it's
not a repeated sacrifice no isn't it is
it is a participation a perfect memory
in the participation of the the
sacrifice of Christ it is an unusual
period because ad70 is when it
disappeared doesn't it right destruction
of the Temple
and they shifted from the temple to the
synagogue and from if I understand it
rightly there's from sacrifice to prayer
prayer right and I was on how does
prayer
fall in for sacrifice well hopefully
when you pray you sacrifice yourself
right because what that's it
part of what you're saying is is
I think if the prayer is proper is
you're saying there's part of me that
needs to go there's part of me that
needs I need to let go there's part of
me that needs to die and it has to be
given up to something higher what part
of it is of me has to go and that's
there's a contemplative aspect to that
and you look to the highest to help
guide you in that so there's a
discriminating Spirit within you that
can help separate the chaff from the
wheat and the offering up of the chaff
is the sacrificial gesture and so that
can be transformed into prayer one of
the things that Jung would say about
that for example is that if you if you
give up enough psychologically you don't
have to
you you'll you'll cut your losses in
actuality and of course that's sort of
what thoughts for is right so that you
can you can get yourself straight
you can give it up in abstraction so you
don't act out the pathology and then and
then nothing dies in actuality but that
still means you have something to give
up and part of that repentance idea is a
sacrificial notion it's like well oh
that's what I did wrong oh that's a big
part of me oh it's gonna hurt when that
goes it's like yeah but maybe you won't
die then you offer it up as a sacrifice
to something higher because otherwise
why would you improve and that
discriminating spirit inside that judges
what's in you that should be sacrificed
that he wouldn't even exist unless it
was existing in relationship to
something higher because there'd be
nothing to serve as a judge